---
title: PPC 2021 Interconnections between Particle Physics and Cosmology
layout: page
type: post
place: University of Oklahoma, Norman, OK, USA (virtual)
description: 
date: 2021-08-15
paperurl: https://inspirehep.net/literature/1869723
eventurl: https://indico.cern.ch/event/822029/
categories: 
   - Parallel session
length: 15min talk
talktitle: The Standard Model Quiver in de Sitter String Compactifications
excerpt: With the advent of the string landscape, the realisation of the Standard Model in general string theory compactifications to 4D has become a primary focus. This talk concerns novel constructions of the Standard Model in global set-ups of type IIB Calabi-Yau compactifications. We argue that...
---

### Title: The Standard Model Quiver in de Sitter String Compactifications

### Abstract:

With the advent of the string landscape, the realisation of the Standard Model in general string theory compactifications to 4D has become a primary focus. This talk concerns novel constructions of the Standard Model in global set-ups of type IIB Calabi-Yau compactifications. We argue that the Standard Model quiver can be embedded into compact Calabi-Yau geometries through orientifolded D3-branes at del Pezzo singularities dP𝑛 with n ≥ 5 in a framework including moduli stabilisation. To illustrate our approach, we explicitly construct a local dP5 model via a combination of Higgsing and orientifolding. This procedure reduces the original dP5 quiver gauge theory to the Left-Right symmetric model with three families of quarks and leptons as well as a Higgs sector to further break the symmetries to the Standard Model gauge group. We embed this local model in a globally consistent Calabi-Yau flux compactification with tadpole and Freed-Witten anomaly cancellations. The model features closed string moduli stabilisation with a de Sitter minimum from T-branes, supersymmetry broken by the Kähler moduli, and the MSSM as the low energy spectrum. We further discuss phenomenological and cosmological implications of this construction.



Event website [Indico](https://indico.cern.ch/event/822029/).
