---
title: Quantum corrections in string theory
layout: page
description: 
---



Extracting reliable low-energy information from string compactifications notoriously requires a detailed understanding of the UV sensitivity of the corresponding EFTs. Despite astonishing efforts in computing string scattering amplitudes, systematically deriving corrections to the tree-level actions remains a key challenge. In the future, my aim is to establish a unifying approach towards extracting quantum corrections to string effective actions in various dimensions. On the one hand, I will continue examining higher derivative and string loop corrections, especially at the eight-derivative level in the Ramond-Ramond sector of type IIB superstring theory. Natural targets are terms involving the (complex) 3-form <b>G</b><sub>3</sub> and 1-form <b>P</b><sub>1</sub> such as (<b>G</b><sub>3</sub>)<sup>2n</sup><b>R</b><sup>4-n</sup> or (<b>P</b><sub>1</sub><sup>2n</sup>)<b>R</b><sup>4-n</sup> where <b>R</b> is the Riemann curvature tensor. From superspace methods, we know that there exists an emergent structure in terms of higher-dimensional index tensors that remains largely unexplored. This raises hope that the type IIB effective action enjoys a powerful ordering principle which is crucial for a completion at the eight-derivative level to all orders in the string loop expansion.

On the other hand, I assess the impact of &alpha;<sup>'</sup> and g<sub>s</sub> corrections on the structure of lower-dimensional EFTs obtained from KK reduction on compact geometries. Of critical importance is the test of novel higher derivative terms against constraints from supersymmetry in lower dimensions upon compactification on e.g. K3 to 6 dimensions or Calabi-Yau threefolds to 4 dimensions. Furthermore, it is imperative to further scrutinise &alpha;<sup>'</sup> corrections in [<i>F-theory</i>](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/abs/pii/0550321396001721?via%3Dihub) which could affect the established moduli stabilisation procedures like [<i>KKLT</i>](https://journals.aps.org/prd/abstract/10.1103/PhysRevD.68.046005) or [<i>LVS</i>](https://iopscience.iop.org/article/10.1088/1126-6708/2005/03/007).
Overall, progress in these directions may have striking impact on a great variety of areas like [<i>AdS/CFT</i>](https://link.springer.com/article/10.1023%2FA%3A1026654312961), fundamental cosmology or black hole physics.
